---
layout: post
title: "Ilya Noma"
date: 2018-10-23
tags: [medium, humanoid, undead, cr8, homebrew]
---

**Medium humanoid (undead), neutral evil**

**Armor Class** 18 (plate)

**Hit Points** 136 (16d8+64)

**Speed** 30 ft.

|   STR   |   DEX   |   CON   |   INT   |   WIS   |   CHA   |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
| 18 (+4) | 15 (+2) | 18 (+4) | 12 (+1) | 14 (+2) | 16 (+3) |

**Skills** perception +5, stealth +5

**Damage Resistances** bludgeoning, piercing and slashing from non-magical weapons that are not silvered

**Damage Immunities** necrotic, poison

**Condition Immunities** exhausted, poisoned

**Senses** darkvision 120 ft.

**Languages** common, draconic

**Challenge** 8

***Sunlight Sensitivity.*** While in sunlight, the wight has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

***Consume Life.*** As a bonus action, Ilya can target one creature it can see within 5 ft. of it that has 0 HP but is still alive.  The target must succeed a DC 14 Consitution save or die.  If the target dies, Ilya regains 3d6 HP.

***Undead Fortitude.*** If damage reduces Ilya to 0 HP, she must make a Constitution saving throw against a DC of 5 + the damage taken unless the damage was radiant or a critical hit.  On a success, she drops to 1 HP instead.

***Marshal Undead.*** Unless she is incapacitated, Ilya and all undead creatures of its choice within 60 ft of her have advantage on saving throws against features that turn undead.

***Innate Spellcaster.*** Ilya possesses some innate spellcasting talent.  Her spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks).  She can cast the following without material components.

* At Will: Chill Touch, Minor Illusion
* 3/day each: Crown of Madness, Hex, Ray of Enfeeblement
* 1/day each: Fear, Vampiric Touch

**Actions**

***Multiattack.*** Ilya makes either two greatsword attack or two greatbow attacks.  She can use life drain in place of one of these attacks.

***Greatsword.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) necrotic damage.

***Greatbow.*** Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 200/800 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (1d10+4) piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) necrotic damage.

***Life Drain*** Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 11 (2d6+4) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.  A humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a zombie under Ilya's control, unless the humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. Ilya can have no more than twenty zombies under its control at one time.  Zombies created in this manner have the consume life ability and twice the normal hit points. 

***Leadership (1 per short or long rest)*** For one minute, Ilya can utter a special command or warning whenever a nonhostile creature that it can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll or a saving throw. The creature can add a d4 to its roll provided it can hear and understand Ilya. A creature can benefit from only one Leadership die at a time. This effect ends if Ilya is incapacitated.